# Adding new font icons

The Spot application uses a mix of material design icons, custom icons, and maybe other icons.

## Using material icons
The material-ui dependency should have all material icons already available. To use an icon, find the icons feature folder and ensure to re-export the desired material icon. Then in the file which needs to use the icon, import the icon from the feature folder.

## Using a custom icon
Sometimes an icon is needed that is not part a standard material icon library. In such cases the app should first package it through a font file with other custom icons. The font file has ligatures enabled to allow for icons to be displayed using specified icon names instead of css classes.

New custom icons are added to a font file using icomoon.io. To update the icon file with new icons (SVGs):

1. Visit https://icomoon.io/app/#/select
1. Click the hamburger menu > Manage Projects > Import Project. The file picker should display.
1. Select selection.json, which is file generated by icomoon describing the font file.
1. Load the imported project. All the icons used in the project should be displayed and selected.
1. Click Import Icons. The file picker should display.
1. Select all the desired imports and verify they have been imported. Likely these imports will be svgs downloaded from the Material Icons site.
1. Make sure all desired icons are displayed and selected.
1. Click Generate Font. All selected fonts should display.
1. Ensure ligatures is enabled ("fi" at the top of the page).
1. Find the new fonts and modify the "fi" field with the icon name that should be declared in the dom for the icon to display.
1. Click Download. This should download a zip files. Within the zip file should be a selection.json and all the font files in a fonts folder.
1. Replace the selection.json in the spot repo with the newly generated selection.json.
1. Replace all the font files with the newly generated font files.
1. Check locally that the icons display okay.
1. Commit selection.json and the font files.

For consistency with how material icons are being used, the icon should then be wrapped in a React Component and exported from icon feature folder. That way the rest of the app will use material icons and custom icons in the same way, by importing from the icons feature.
